(soothing music)
(whoa, whoaa, whoa)
(claps)
(whoa)
Get ready to yell at your computer
or play a bunch of music for this one.
This one is using the Web Audio API.
So sure, so cool.
There's this whole spectrum of JavaScript,
which is just working with audio,
which is really interesting.
I unfortunately don't know
a whole lot about how audio works.
But I was able to--
like I don't understand how frequencies and time work.
So, we built this like kind of a cool little visualizer.
We've got this which is frequency along
the bottom and then along the, this little. (uuh)
That thing is time data as is the audio that's coming in.
And we're just painting those to canvas.
The the end thing is,
probably around about 100 lines of code,
which is pretty cool.
So like, this is the kind of stuff that,
that I think is going to get you
really excited about JavaScript,
especially if you know how audio works,
and you're really into audio because there's all kinds
of API's for changing data about audio.
You could make like, one of those like voice modulators.
So you could prank call people,
lots of kind of cool things you can do with it.
So, let's get into it.
We are in 83, dash audio visualizer a oscilloscope.
I think that's what this thing is called.
And I want you to open that up in your browser
and just go ahead and type, npm install.
When you're in that folder. take a quick look.
There's nothing about parcel js in here
as a dev dependency and a start script,
which will start it up
as well as our browsers list that we've got going on here.
And let's take a look at our index, that HTML.
We've got a blank canvas,
and we have a script tag to the sound.
And then finally, we have just some very basic styles,
which I'm using to stretch out the canvas
to whatever the width or the height is of,
of this thing just so it looks good no matter,
no matter where you're at.
Ooh, that looks kind of ribbony, I like that.
Now, this is going to be working off of the microphone,
but if you want it to go to music.
♪The lines our hearts are paved in, Form a constellation ♪
And that cool.
So, if you want it to go to music,
you have a couple options.
There are API's to pipe it in from an audio element.
I'm not going to go into those.
I'm just doing microphone right now.
Then your other options are that you can just,
unplug your headphones and play your music
over your speakers and that will make it back
into your microphone.
And then finally, the final option is
I use this little app called loopback
and it allows me to take apps like Spotify
and pipe that into my microphone.
I have like this Virtual interface from my microphone
that I use because I have multiple microphones
and they all go in.
So that's a paid app, you probably don't wanna use that.
But that's just sort of how that works.
That's how I'm doing it.
How I'm recording this tutorial.
So, let's open up sound.js,
and first thing that we wanna do is set up our canvas.
So, we need a width and a height variables here.
And this width and height actually doesn't matter that much.
If you do a lower number,
it's going to be much more responsive.
And if you do a higher number,
it's going to really slow down your computer.
So, I was running mine at like 2500 pixels by 25,
and it looked great.
It was probably even more than I needed.
But it was just slowing down my computer way too much.
So, I found at least on my computer 1500 by 1500.
If you find that this is too much for your computer,
just lower this value.
And at all the calculations we do will be based off of this.
So there's no sweat in being able
to change this back and forth.
Next we need is to get a canvas element.
So say document.querySelector, will grab the canvas.
And then we need the context.
And that will cc Canvas.getcontext.
Will get the 2d canvas.
And then we'll size up our canvas
to be the same height and width
as what we're expecting here.
So, say canvas.width is equal to WIDTH.
And Canvas.height is equal to Canvas height.
Then once your npm install has finished,
we can go ahead and npm start that.
Open it up in your browser,
and you shouldn't be able to see anything, just yet.
So, there's there's kinda two parts that's,
that's gonna go on here or are three parts.
There's first, we actually need to get the audio
and the data about the frequency
and the time and everything like that.
Then we wanna draw the frequency bars
that are down here at the bottom.
And then we also want to draw the time data,
which is this little jumpy guy in the middle there.
So let's do the audio first,
then we'll do one of the other
and then we'll do the finally the last one.
So, we need to make an async function called getAudio.
And we need to get access to the user's microphone.
That's why I'm running this on a server
because it needs to be over a secure origin.
Secure origin is something that is HTTPS, or local host.
Local host is also secure origin.
The browser will not allow you to have access
to a webcam or microphone or any of those API's
unless you're on a secure origin.
So, the const stream is equal to await.
And we'll say a navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia.
This is exactly the same API we used
when we're doing webcam stuff,
except in here we're going to pass audio is equal to true.
So we only want audio in this case,
we don't want access to use webcam.
You could actually, that be kind of cool.
You could like paint these bars over top of.
Oh man, there's so much cool stuff you could do with this.
We're not, we're not doing that right now though,
that's gonna run away from us.
Then we need to get audio context and in the browser,
the audio context is where all
of the processing of the audio will be done.
So we need to make a new one of those.
So, we'll say const audioCtx, is equal to new AudioContext.
Then we need to create an analyzer.
So, we've have this audio contacts and inside of there,
we can create an analyzer.
Now, this analyzer needs to be accessed.
We're gonna have three functions.
We're gonna have one function for getting the audio,
will have another function for drawing frequency bars.
And then we'll have another function
for drawing the time bars.
And all three of those need access to this audio context.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna create a variable up here,
that is just scoped to this module.
And that will be, that will allow my other functions.
We could also pass it from one function or another.
But because this is so complex,
I wanna make it as simple as possible.
So, we're gonna do is scope it to the sound.js module.
So, we'll say let analyzer,
up here,
and then that just creates the variable.
Don't say that 'cause you're purple prettier
is gonna convert it to a const.
And then here will say analyzer,
is equal to, we'll take our audio context.
And there's a method on it called create analyzer.
So, there's a bunch of methods create gain,
create media stream, create buffer, buffer source,
create analyzer, create by quad filter create channel merge.
And if there's probably some musicians
watching this right now and,
and like you totally know what those things are,
and I would love to see what you do with them.
I unfortunately don't know a biquad filter is,
so I can't do anything with it.
But I do know that we can create an analyzer like this.
And finally, we need to create a source,
which takes our stream
and will pipe that into the audio context.
So, the sort of whole idea with these audio context things
is that you can take in data, pipe it through your context,
do stuff to it change,
change the frequencies, change the time,
you can, you can make some pretty fun little sound effects
with it and then you pipe the data out,
very much like if you had physical audio devices.
You'd type data into one out of the other
into one, like this microphone right now is being piped
into a couple different rack mounted things,
and then finally into my computer after that is done.
So, we'll take our audio context.
And we
will call a method called createMediaStreamSource.
And then we pass it, the source or sorry, not the source,
the stream that we got from the user
when they had gone ahead and allowed access to the webcam.
You see this little red dot.
That means that it has access to my webcam.
We wanna to stick that in a variable.
So, will say const source is equal to audio context
that created media stream,
and then we take our source and connect it to the analyzer,
and that should have wired everything up for us.
Next, what we need to do is,
now that we have this analyzer,
we need to figure out how much data we want access to.
Because you can, you can get really nitty gritty,
you can see like right now,
see how many like little bars,
I'm sampling a lot of data with that.
And I'm just gonna go ahead and change this
to something even more.
There, I just changed it and
Wooh!
Look at how thin these little bars are,
and look at how much data we're collecting about the time.
(whoa)
And then on the flip side,
I could sample only a little bit of data
from the Musers microphone,
and that's very low-res, right.
Like I've only got a couple of different bars here,
in this little time thing is, (makes noise)
going on all over the place.
So, this is up to us.
How much data do we wanna collect?
So, say how much data should we collect?
And we take our analyzer and we set the fft.Size.
If you wanna know what that is,
just look it up.
The fftSize property of analyzer node interfaces unsigned,
long value and represents the window size
and samples when performing a Fast Fourier Transform.
So, if you don't know what that is, like me, it's this.
You can you can go to Wikipedia and read up on that.
But as far as I can understand this is how much data
out off this microphone should we be sampling,
and what we'll do is we'll take two,
and we'll run to the power of,
I found that 10 is more than enough for me.
Right now I'm running this at two to the power of five.
Let me switch it over to to the power of 14.
So, these are just like, these are huge numbers
and that's why I'm doing to the power of
and that's how you do the power of in JavaScript.
It's times times, so two to the power of two.
Unexpected too
Oh, I did too many, there we go.
That's obviously four but then
to the power of three is eight.
This is math class, all over again.
So, two to the power of 10 is 1024.
That's how many, how many little pieces
of data we are sampling.
And the reason why we do two
is so that they all will stay in as bits.
So, if you look at like a gigabyte,
it's not actually 1000 megabytes, it's 1024 megabytes.
All right, now, we've got that.
You can obviously change that too.
You can play with it once we have it up and running.
Now let's go ahead and pull the data off the audio.
So, will say const timeData.
Let's do the Time dead.
Time data is this one, that's streaming across.
You can see as I talk,
you can still visualize it a second or two after that,
and obviously the bigger that we make this,
like let me do two to the power of 50.
(Whoo, whoo, whoo)
Oh, I broke it, It doesn't go that high.
It's two to the power of 20.
(Whoo)
(Whoo, whooo)
That's two to the power of 15.
And then if I make it really slow,
like two to the power of five,
it's almost gone immediately.
So, what we'll do here is we'll grab
that time data into an array.
And this is, this is kind of interesting.
It uses a different type of array that you often only see
this array when working with very, very large sets of data.
So, we say time data is equal to new
Uint8Array
and then we pass it the analyzer. frequencyBinCount.
Let's break that down.
So, what is this Uint8array?
It's a typed array to represent an array
of 8-bit unsigned integers.
The contents are initialized to zero.
Once established, you can reference elements in the array
or use standard array syntax to get into it.
So what does that mean?
Well, the data that we're getting back from the time data
is eight bits or one byte,
and this is getting, this is getting real nerdy.
But essentially, if you have an array,
normal arrays, you can put as much data
as you want in every single item.
With this special kind of Uint8array,
each item in the array can only ever be one bit or eight.
Sorry, eight bits, or one bite.
Eight bits is one bite.
And what that allows us to do is if we know ahead of time,
how big each of them are,
we can make really big arrays and they're also there types,
meaning that we're not accidentally
gonna put some data in there.
That doesn't work for us.
And that allows us to do really heavy duty lifting,
like data analysis.
You also see these special types of arrays
when working with graphics, as well.
So, this time data as a new array
that is data about the time.
So if we go ahead and console log that time data,
I believe we can just run get audio on page load.
And this should give us one array of audio.
So let's check it out.
Uncaught in promise, permission denied.
Okay, so that's kind of interesting right here.
So this get user media, it was denied by me.
So, I'm gonna make a handle error.
How's the error and we'll just say console.log,
you must give access to your mic in order to proceed.
We will go here and just catch,
handle that error.
And now says you must get access
to your mic in order to proceed.
So I'm gonna click on this and click Allow.
And here we go.
So, you'll see that we get an array of,
they're all zeros initially.
But as we start talking, and as we keep sampling this data,
this is gonna fill up with a bunch of numbers that represent
the frequencies and the time data in what we say.
So, we'll get into that in just a second.
Let's make the second one as well,
we'll make a frequency data array as well new Uint8array.
And then we take the analyzer.frequencyBinCount as well.
And now we've got these two arrays that are full of data.
Let's try this one again.
console log it.
Next, what we're gonna do is we're going
to make a function called drawTimeData.
And that takes in a time data variable.
And this thing is just going to run as,
as frequently as it possibly can.
So what we'll do here is,
we'll initially call it, so say drawTimeData.
And we'll pass it, our time data.
And then this function,
we can just console.log the timeData.
And then we can, we need to call itself as soon as possible.
And for that, what we'll use is
a request animation frame.
So what we'll say is,
hey, browser next time you're going to repaint something,
or next time, it's possible to paint to the screen again,
can you call this draw time data again?
So say requestAnimationFrame.
And when that runs,
we'll run a little inline function here.
will do an arrow that says, drawTimeData.
And we'll pass it
the timeData again.
Now when I refresh,
you'll see we've got this just streaming in.
Its console logging.
It's all zeros right now,
because it was zeros initially,
but we have another method that will allow us
to pull that data out of it.
So, what we can do is,
we will reference our analyzer,
and will use a method called getByteTimeDomain data
and pass it our time data array.
And what that will do--
This is a little bit weird,
'cause I initially thought it should look like this,
time data is equal to analyzer.GetByteTimeDomainData,
but it's a little bit backwards,
in that you just call the method and you pass it the array
that you want it to inject the data into.
And what this will do is
inject the time data into our time data array.
Now, if I were to console log timeData
You see,
as I'm talking,
these numbers go from 128, all the way up to,
I believe it's 255.
(yelling)
Yeah, if you start yelling, they go,
they go really, really high.
So between 128 and 255, and we're getting.
This is now a visual representation representation
of the words that I am speaking.
And now that we have this data,
now that we have the data,
let's turn it into something visual, right?
This is, this is just data visualization.
So, we'll start drawing with the canvas.
The first thing we need to do is just clear the canvas.
So, one, clear the canvas.
Let's actually just leave that as to do.
I wanna show you what happens when we don't,
When we don't clear the canvas.
Next we need to set up some Canvas drawing,
ctx.lineWith is equal to 10.
We can also play around with that.
And then we say ctx.StrokeStyle
is equal to whatever color you want it to be.
I'm gonna use my favorite ffc600.
You could change that to red or green or anyone,
and then we begin our paths.
So canvas.begin.Path
canvas.begin--
Oh, its ctx.beginPath.
Okay.
So, next what we need to do is,
we need to figure out how long will each line be
'cause the idea with this is that
we've got all of this data.
And there's, let's say we have, in here we have,
one two three four five six,
Let's say we have seven pieces of data.
That means we're gonna send,
we're gonna draw seven lines from one to the next
to the next to the next to the next to next to next.
And we need to figure out,
how wide are each of these lines going to be.
Because we've got, how wide is our--
We've got 1500 pixels.
And then we've got maybe 512
pieces of data,
or eight pieces of data.
And what we have is.
Okay, we've got 1500 pixels,
and let's say we have eight pieces of data.
That means each line is gonna be about 188 pixels wide.
Or if we have 512 pieces of data,
then each line will be about three,
two or three pixels wide.
So we need to figure out what is the width
of each of those going to be.
So, say const slice, will call that each.
Every time that we draw something like this is one two
three four five six seven.
We've got seven slices.
And then here as well,
we've got seven slices as well.
So we're gonna figure out what the slice width is equal to.
And we take the width,
and we divide that by the length of the,
we're gonna call that a buffer.
The array of time data.
So, let's actually just go and make a new variable for that,
'cause the buffer length is analyzer
that frequency been capped.
That's hard to hard to understand.
So let's go up to the very top and like a bufferLength.
Let bufferLength and let's go right here above time data,
and will just say bufferLength is equal to
analyzer.frequencyBinCount.
So that, this is going to be how many pieces
of data are there?
That's called bufferLength.
And then we can actually replace the,
all of these analyzers.frequencyBinCounts
with buffer length.
That's a little bit easier.
And then down here, we'll say slicewidth is equal to
WIDTH divided by bufferLength.
And that should give us how big each slice will be.
So in our case, if we console.log the sliceWidth,
and go into here, you'll see it's 2.9 pixels long,
for every slice that we have.
And if we are to make the width of this 2500 pixels,
it goes up to 4.8.
If we were to make it 500 pixels wide,
each one is going to be 0.97.
I'm not going round that because Canvas can do
a good enough job of rounding those values for us.
So we have our slice with that we want
and then we also need a x variable,
and we'll set that to zero.
And the reason why is because we're gonna loop over
each pieces of our time data.
And we're gonna increment that by the sliceWidth
every time we loop over it.
So we'll go say timeData.forEach.
So each piece of time data that we have,
we have our data, and we have our increment variable.
Then next up, we'll make a v variable
that is equal to the data.
So, the value that we're talking about,
and then divide that by 128.
And the reason why we do that is because if we remember,
if we were to console.log the data.
When I say nothing, it's 128.
And then as I start talking, it goes up.
So what I wanna do is, I say when you say nothing,
v is going to be one.
And then when it's all the way up to,
like 200 is going to be 1. 2.
So, the v variable here is just going
to be a multiplier that we will use
in drawing the data.
So it'll makes sense in just a sec.
Then we also wanna make a y value.
So, if we look at our example right here.
Let me make this a little bit more complex.
There we go.
So we wanna know, we've got this line,
you can visualize it going left to right.
And that's our x axis.
But we need to know how high or how low that needs to go,
and that's based on our y value.
So if we go back to our code here,
we'll take our y.
And what we'll say it is the V
times the height of the canvas divided by two.
And I'm sorry, if you don't like math,
but this is often how a lot of graphics and stuff is done.
Is that there's lots of division
and multiplication bringing things up and down.
Then we start to draw our lines.
And if the eye is equal to zero, if it's the first line,
we wanna say Canvas.moveTo, x and y.
And then else, what we wanna do is say Canvas., oops,
not remove, move to.
Otherwise wanna say the line to.
So, we're gonna start on the first one with moved to.
And then we're gonna use the lineTo method
to just keep drawing the line to x and y.
And then very, at the very end,
we'll say, x += sliceWidth.
What that will do is it will move our x axis along,
for every time that we loop over.
Turn this to a let.
And canvas.move to is not a func'.
Oh, sorry, it's not canvas. It's ctx.
That's where we do our drawing.
Then we'll get out of our time data for each
and we will run ctx.stroke,
and we'll see what that gives us.
Whoo!
Now, you can see that we're,
every single time that we're drawing something,
it's just drawing that to the page.
So we take our huge array of data,
we loop over each piece of that data,
we draw it to the canvas.
And then finally we run stroke at the very end.
And what that will do is it just paints it to the thing.
Now if we go back to step one,
we're wanna clear the canvas, will say
ctx.clearRect, zero, zero,
width and height
And now every single time that this runs,
we first clear out the canvas,
so it looks like it's actually animating.
But that's just us painting very, very quickly.
So, now we can actually go back up to
where we set the fftsize.
And we can set that to something really low,
like two to the power four.
Ah,
that is too low.
It's got to be between 32 and three,
so those are the upper limits.
So 32 would be two to the power of six
There we go, that's as very low as we can get it.
And then the higher limit was,
let's get the error back 32,768.
So you can even just manually set it like that.
And then you see that tons
of data being piped in.
So let's bring that back to two to the power of six.
(to, to)
And we bring that to 10.
Much better, right,
you get a little bit more data in there.
So that's totally up to you as well.
And of course, you can change this to red.
(yells)
It's kinda, kinda fun to be able to go through it.
We're wanna use HSL on the next one.
So you could just visually show how,
how different that would be.
Alright, so that's, that's the very first one.
So let's do it again now, but for the frequency data.
So, this right here analyzer.GetByteTimeDomain
that gives us the visualization over time.
However, the frequency shows us if you do something
that has a very high frequency,
they jump and very low frequency, it goes low.
So I've actually got a little frequency app
on my phone here.
I'm just going to show you how it works.
(varying frequency sounds)
And at a certain point, it gets way too high.
Apologies to your dog if he's in the room.
I have I've cut off a lot of the frequency
because it's too high for humans to hear.
(varying frequency sounds)
So, that's just like a good visualization of what's
happening is there's different frequencies in the audio
that's coming in and it shows you
and see how higher I can get.
(screaming)
I guess my screen has frequencies all over the place.
Just kinda interesting.
So let's make another function here called drawTime.
Oh no, not draw, drawFrequency.
And I believe we have Yeah,
we have a variable called frequencyData.
So let's just take that in.
And so the first thing we need to do,
is get the frequencyData into our,
frequencyData array.
So, we have this frequency data, kind of like a holder.
And we can inject the data about
the frequency into it by running,
taking our analyzer and running
the method on it called getByteFrequencyData.
And then we give it the frequencyData array.
And if we were to console that log, frequencyData.
I think we should get one of them.
Let's open up our dev tools here.
Oh, none of them happen because I have to also run
drawFrequency and pass it the frequencyData.
There we go.
So initially we get an array 512 spots,
and they're all zero.
And if we were to call this thing again,
requestAnimationFrame, or rather,
a little inline function here,
drawFrequency pass it the frequencyData array.
Here we go.
So you see
as I talk,
these low and high ends are starting to fill each other up.
If I zoom out and as I start talking,
you can visually see, (yells)
that the data is streaming in.
So you can kind of visualize it just with the raw numbers.
But obviously, that's not what we wanna do,
we wanna take that data and then paint it to Canvas.
So the kind of the same ideas happen here.
So first we'll figure out the bar width.
So based on how much data we have
and how much width we have,
what we'll do is we will calculate the bar width,
so const barWidth is equal to,
will take the width and divide that by our bufferLength.
And then that will tell us that the barwidth for each one
is barwidth
2.9 pixels just the same as our other one.
However, I am going to multiply this
by two and a half.
And the reason why I'm multiplying this by two and a half,
is so that we only get the lower end
because in my my testing of this there was
a whole lot of frequency on the left right hand side here
that I would quite honestly just never hit,
because maybe my microphone can pick it up,
maybe the human ear can pick it up.
It's just not frequencies.
So in order to get the visualization to look its best,
we're basically lopping off
over half of it by multiplying the width to be 2.5.
Next, we'll make a little X variable and set that to zero,
just like we did up here.
And then we'll loop over the frequencyData.
So frequencyData.forEach,
and we'll get the amount of data for that one.
And I'm using different variables here,
just to show you that it doesn't matter what you call them,
we'll call it amount in this one.
And then the frequencyData comes in from zero to 255.
And we need to figure out what height that will be
because if it's 100%,
I want it to be all the way up to the center line here,
and if it's zero percent so I'll see it at the bottom,
so we need to figure out what percent is this?
How high will it go?
So const percent is equal to,
will take the amount.
So again, remember the amount comes in from zero to 255.
If there's nothing on that frequency, it's a zero.
And if it's totally on that frequency, then it's 255.
So, by taking the amount of the frequency that we have,
and dividing that by 255,
we get a percentage of anywhere from zero percent to 100%.
And then we also figure out the barHeight
by taking the height of the canvas
and multiplying that by the percent
and that will tell us it's either zero percent high
or 100% high.
We will modify that just to go half way up in just a second.
And then we will convert
the color to HSL.
Let's leave that as a to do,
because we'll come back to that, in just a bit.
Toto, to do.
And we'll take the canvas context
and we'll set the fill style to be.
Let's just set it to red.
We'll come back and do HSL there
'cause it looks really cool.
Then we run ctx.fillRect,
and we do pass it four options here.
So the x and the y of where we start,
so we wanna start at our x variable, which is right here.
And we want to start at the y axis.
So, to calculate that y access will take our height
and we'll subtract the barHeight
because there's no way to tell it to anchor from the bottom.
So what we need to do is we need to tell it to
anchor from the top
plus,
however much, how the height of the bar
and that will allow us to start at like,
like 100 in and 20 down and it will start right here.
Then we need to give it how wide will it be?
Well, we have a variable called barWidth.
And how high will it be?
Well, we have variable called barHeight.
Now, oh, there we go.
Look at this.
You see,
it's (pow, pow)
(pow, pow).
It's going all the way to the top.
But it's not going across.
And that's 'cause we have this x variable
that we just need to increment by the width of the bar.
So they go all the way across.
So say x is equal to x plus the barWidth
and then we'll change this to a let
and now, oh, that didn't work.
Because I didn't do that inside of the loop.
So move that inside of the loop.
And now you see that the data is going all the way across.
One little trick I did is I just said bar width plus one.
And then that gives you a little bit of space,
you can even do plus 10,
we are throwing a little bit of data out
because that means if by adding 10 pixels,
You're spilling out over the canvas.
But what I'll say it looks fine to me
and it's getting all the things that we need.
So I'll plus one or plus two there,
that will give you a nice separation
in between each of your bars.
And now the sort of the other thing
that's bugging me a little bit is that they're all too high.
So what we can do there is we can just take the bar height
and divide that by two.
And now you see the bars don't go quite
as high as they would, right.
So you could also multiply that by like 1.2
and then your base is very low,
and they go all the way off the screen
when they're 100 percent.
You can also do like rgba(255,255,255,0,0.2),
And now you see that these are semi transparent
and the time bars will sort of show through,
which is just kind of cool.
Now, the cool thing we want to do here
is we want to use HSL, which is Hue Saturation lightness
to figure out what color each of the bars will be.
And if you go to this website,
Mother-effing HSL,
you can see that
HSL works in that the hue
goes from zero to 360.
And as you go from zero to 360,
you go through the entire rainbow.
So, what we can then do is we can say,
well, something that has a zero will be zero
on the HSL and something that has a 255
of frequency will be three 360 on the HSL spectrum,
and we can use that as a base
to go throughout the entire thing.
So what we can do here is we'll make an array.
Will say const h,s,l
is equal to
and we'll make a new array.
So the hue is going to be or we gonna move it down below
the percent, will take the percent and multiply that by 360.
And then you actually have to put parentheses around that
and use 360 divided by that
and that will give us our base of zero to 360 for the hue.
And then for the saturation and lightness,
I just do 0.5, 0.75
and that's it.
And what that will do that, that's the saturation here.
You can obviously go up, and it's very saturated and down,
it's not saturated at all.
And then the lightness will give it go
between white and black.
So, by keeping it at 0.75,
that's kind of where I'm happy with it.
Now, the thing about HSL is that HSL is really easy
to programmatically calculate values
like hue saturation, and lightness,
but we can't use HSL on canvas.
So it's a bit of a problem.
So what I've done is I've gone out in the utils,
there is this HSL to RGB function that takes in a
hue saturation lightness value
and will return to you a RGB value.
So we can use that to convert it.
So we'll go back to our sounds,
go to the very top and we'll import.
And what was that thing called?
Tt's hslToRbg,
and we will,
from ./utils
and go down here.
And right above the fillstyle, will say,
const r,g,b
is equal to hslToRgb.
We have this thing called the Royal Botanical Gardens
near me, and I always give it up because one of them is RBG
and one of them is RGB
and we pass it our h, our s, and our l values.
And then we can, that will convert it to RGB.
You can simply just pass it here.
So backticks, rgb
and we'll say,
let's just 000 and then we'll manually pipe them in r, g, b.
(yells)
Okay, it's working looking a little eastery to me,
a little pastary.
I think if we change
this to, change that to one and then
this one to 0.5 you get, Yeah.
Whoo!
That's, that's even a bit much that's too neon for me.
0.5,
all right.
See, that's that's looking looking pretty good to me.
But if you look at this one that I did,
the colors look way cooler,
because they're much more purples and reds and blues.
And these ones are mostly blues.
So what I did is if you simply subtract
0.5 from the hue,
it will then just kinda offset where you start
on the HSL spectrum and give us a few more reds
and things like that that we want.
So there, what if I move this up to eight?
Yeah, so you can obviously play with these HSL values.
The first one is hue, the second one is saturation,
and the third one is lightness.
If you go all the way up to one,
they're all going to be white.
If you go to zero, they'll all be black.
And then everywhere in between,
will give you different values that you have they're.
(whoa whoa, whoa)
Pretty fun.
So, that is the very basics of visualizing data.
One kind of cool thing I was hoping to do,
I can't figure it out,
but this time domain data,
it actually gives you decibel values.
And what would be cool is if you could map
that decibel value to HSL,
meaning that like the lowest decibel
that you can get is like a zero on HSL.
And the highest decibel that you can get is
a 360 and then that this thing is that of being yellow
would be like the high values would be I don't,
know you could visualize it differently and in HSL.
So, that would be kind of a cool challenge to check out
if you want to dive deep into the audio API's.
Hopefully you learned a thing or two.
I know that this stuff is, is pretty in the weeds,
especially when you're getting into multiplication division.
And then you also have to understand
sort of how sound works and things like that,
but this is the kind of stuff that makes me curious
about JavaScript and makes me want to dive deeper
and learn a little bit more.
So, I encourage you to dive deeper on this one as well.
See you in the next one.